README.md, before:

![spork.svg](spork.svg)

# Atek Spork

A command-line p2p sockets tool. **WARNING: early alpha; spork power levels are elevated. 👉[Demo video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kPP7gC_77Rc)👈.** 

```
npm i -g @atek-cloud/spork
```

## Overview

Spork lets you tunnel between any two devices using the [Hyperswarm P2P network](https://github.com/hyperswarm).
Here's the current commands:

```
spork - A p2p sockets multi-tool

Commands:
   spork bind [public-key] - Bind a p2p socket as a proxy to a local or remote server.
   spork gateway - Create an HTTP server that routes to p2p sockets by subdomain.
```

## How-tos

### Expose a server to the P2P network

Let's say you have a web app running at `localhost:12345`:

```js
require('http').createServer((req, res) => {
  res.writeHead(200).end('Hello, world!')
}).listen(12345)
```

You can put this on the p2p network by calling `spork bind`:

```bash
$ spork bind -p 12345
Created temporary keypair, public key: whattzzuu5drxwdwi6xbijjf7yt56l5adzht7j7kjvfped7amova

======================
Spork powers ACTIVATED

 - Mode: Reverse proxy
 - Listening on whattzzuu5drxwdwi6xbijjf7yt56l5adzht7j7kjvfped7amova
 - Proxying all traffic to localhost:12345
======================
```

Now, as long as that spork command is running, your web app will be available at `whattzzuu5drxwdwi6xbijjf7yt56l5adzht7j7kjvfped7amova` (it will be a different pubkey for you).

If you want to re-use a public key, specify the `-k` parameter with the path to where the keyfile can be stored.

```
$ spork bind -p 12345 -k ./key.json
```

If the keyfile doesn't exist yet, it will create the keyfile.

### Access a server on the P2P network

Let's say somebody has sporked their web app onto the p2p net at the pubkey `whattzzuu5drxwdwi6xbijjf7yt56l5adzht7j7kjvfped7amova`.
We can create a local proxy to that app using `spork bind`:

```bash
$ spork bind whattzzuu5drxwdwi6xbijjf7yt56l5adzht7j7kjvfped7amova -p 5555
Created temporary keypair, public key: nhspq2iz4lclc6gnmh5yniyaevluz4t6dkdsg7w5sg546ea6ozeq

======================
Spork powers ACTIVATED

 - Mode: forward proxy
 - Listening on localhost:5555
 - Proxying all traffic to whattzzuu5drxwdwi6xbijjf7yt56l5adzht7j7kjvfped7amova
======================
```

Now I can CURL to that web app using `localhost:5555`.

```bash
$ curl localhost:5555
Hello, world!
```

### Create an HTTP gateway

You can run an HTTP gateway to p2p sockets with the `spork gateway` command.

```bash
$ spork gateway -p 5555
Created temporary keypair, public key: ukblfcctbbfif2vijw3s77w6hk5maaemc4x5hou2a7txgfp5u4pq

======================
Spork powers ACTIVATED

 - Mode: Gateway
 - Listening on localhost:5555
 - Proxing by subdomain to p2p sockets
======================
```

Now we can access the `whattzzuu5drxwdwi6xbijjf7yt56l5adzht7j7kjvfped7amova` pubkey through our gateway by visiting `http://whattzzuu5drxwdwi6xbijjf7yt56l5adzht7j7kjvfped7amova.localhost:5555`.

You can curl to that address by setting the host header manually:

```bash
$ curl localhost:5555 -H "Host: whattzzuu5drxwdwi6xbijjf7yt56l5adzht7j7kjvfped7amova.localhost"
Hello, world!
```

## What next?

You now have the power of the spork. Use it with wisdom...or don't. The spork powers will only grow from here (aka we'll add more features).

## License

MIT

Commit message:

Breaking change: @atek-cloud/network@0.0.4 - Drop libp2p modules

README.md, after:

![spork.svg](spork.svg)

# Atek Spork

A command-line p2p sockets tool. **WARNING: early alpha; spork power levels are elevated. 👉[Demo video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kPP7gC_77Rc)👈.** 

```
npm i -g @atek-cloud/spork
```

## Overview

Spork lets you tunnel between any two devices using the [Hyperswarm P2P network](https://github.com/hyperswarm).
Here's the current commands:

```
spork - A p2p sockets multi-tool

Commands:
   spork bind [public-key] - Bind a p2p socket as a proxy to a local or remote server.
   spork gateway - Create an HTTP server that routes to p2p sockets by subdomain.
```

## How-tos

### Expose a server to the P2P network

Let's say you have a web app running at `localhost:12345`:

```js
require('http').createServer((req, res) => {
  res.writeHead(200).end('Hello, world!')
}).listen(12345)
```

You can put this on the p2p network by calling `spork bind`:

```bash
$ spork bind -p 12345
Created temporary keypair, public key: whattzzuu5drxwdwi6xbijjf7yt56l5adzht7j7kjvfped7amova

======================
Spork powers ACTIVATED

 - Mode: Reverse proxy
 - Listening on whattzzuu5drxwdwi6xbijjf7yt56l5adzht7j7kjvfped7amova
 - Proxying all traffic to localhost:12345
======================
```

Now, as long as that spork command is running, your web app will be available at `whattzzuu5drxwdwi6xbijjf7yt56l5adzht7j7kjvfped7amova` (it will be a different pubkey for you).

If you want to re-use a public key, specify the `-k` parameter with the path to where the keyfile can be stored.

```
$ spork bind -p 12345 -k ./key.json
```

If the keyfile doesn't exist yet, it will create the keyfile.

### Access a server on the P2P network

Let's say somebody has sporked their web app onto the p2p net at the pubkey `whattzzuu5drxwdwi6xbijjf7yt56l5adzht7j7kjvfped7amova`.
We can create a local proxy to that app using `spork bind`:

```bash
$ spork bind whattzzuu5drxwdwi6xbijjf7yt56l5adzht7j7kjvfped7amova -p 5555
Created temporary keypair, public key: nhspq2iz4lclc6gnmh5yniyaevluz4t6dkdsg7w5sg546ea6ozeq

======================
Spork powers ACTIVATED

 - Mode: forward proxy
 - Listening on localhost:5555
 - Proxying all traffic to whattzzuu5drxwdwi6xbijjf7yt56l5adzht7j7kjvfped7amova
======================
```

Now I can CURL to that web app using `localhost:5555`.

```bash
$ curl localhost:5555
Hello, world!
```

### Create an HTTP gateway

You can run an HTTP gateway to p2p sockets with the `spork gateway` command.

```bash
$ spork gateway -p 5555
Created temporary keypair, public key: ukblfcctbbfif2vijw3s77w6hk5maaemc4x5hou2a7txgfp5u4pq

======================
Spork powers ACTIVATED

 - Mode: Gateway
 - Listening on localhost:5555
 - Proxing by subdomain to p2p sockets
======================
```

Now we can access the `whattzzuu5drxwdwi6xbijjf7yt56l5adzht7j7kjvfped7amova` pubkey through our gateway by visiting `http://whattzzuu5drxwdwi6xbijjf7yt56l5adzht7j7kjvfped7amova.localhost:5555`.

You can curl to that address by setting the host header manually:

```bash
$ curl localhost:5555 -H "Host: whattzzuu5drxwdwi6xbijjf7yt56l5adzht7j7kjvfped7amova.localhost"
Hello, world!
```

## What next?

You now have the power of the spork. Use it with wisdom...or don't. The spork powers will only grow from here (aka we'll add more features).

## Notable changes

### 1.0.0 - Drop libp2p modules

⚠️ Breaking change ⚠️ 

The [Atek Networking module](https://github.com/atek-cloud/network) was updated to drop the libp2p modules. [See the section in that readme](https://github.com/atek-cloud/network#004---drop-libp2p-modules) to understand why.

This is a breaking change to the wire protocol from previous versions! Make sure you're using 1.0.0+ on both ends.

## License

MIT
